packages/svelte/README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/lucide-icons/lucide">
    <img src="https://lucide.dev/package-logos/lucide-svelte.svg" alt="Lucide icon library for Svelte 5 applications." width="540">
  </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
Lucide icon library for Svelte 5 applications.
</p>

<div align="center">

  [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/%40lucide%2Fsvelte?color=blue)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/lucide-svelte)
  ![NPM Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dw/%40lucide%2Fsvelte)
  [![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/lucide-icons/lucide)](https://lucide.dev/license)
</div>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://lucide.dev/guide/">About</a>
  ·
  <a href="https://lucide.dev/icons/">Icons</a>
  ·
  <a href="https://lucide.dev/guide/packages/lucide-svelte">Documentation</a>
  ·
  <a href="https://lucide.dev/license">License</a>
</p>

# Lucide Svelte

Implementation of the lucide icon library for svelte applications.

## Installation

```sh
pnpm add @lucide/svelte
```

```sh
npm install @lucide/svelte
```

```sh
yarn add @lucide/svelte
```

```sh
bun add @lucide/svelte
```

## Documentation

For full documentation, visit [lucide.dev](https://lucide.dev/guide/packages/lucide-svelte)

## Community

Join the [Discord server](https://discord.gg/EH6nSts) to chat with the maintainers and other users.

## License

Lucide is licensed under the ISC license. See [LICENSE](https://lucide.dev/license).

## Sponsors

<a href="https://vercel.com?utm_source=lucide&utm_campaign=oss">
  <img src="https://lucide.dev/vercel.svg" alt="Powered by Vercel" width="200" />
</a>

<a href="https://www.digitalocean.com/?refcode=b0877a2caebd&utm_campaign=Referral_Invite&utm_medium=Referral_Program&utm_source=badge"><img src="https://lucide.dev/digitalocean.svg" width="200" alt="DigitalOcean Referral Badge" /></a>

[//]: <> (Open Collective backers)
### Awesome backers 🍺

<a href="https://github.com/pdfme/pdfme"><img src="https://lucide.dev/sponsors/pdfme.svg" width="180" alt="pdfme – Open-source PDF generation library built with TypeScript and React." /></a>
<a href="https://www.paxhistoria.co/"><img src="https://lucide.dev/sponsors/paxhistoria.svg?" width="180" alt="Pax Historia – An alternate history sandbox game" /></a>

### Backers ☕

<a href="https://www.fina.money/"><img src="https://lucide.dev/sponsors/fina-money.png" width="180" alt="Fina Money – Modular Finance Tracker" /></a>

### Other contributors 💸

You can find all our past and non-recurring financial contributors at [our Open Collective page](https://opencollective.com/lucide-icons).

Commit message:

Clarify package usage for Svelte 4 and 5
@lucide/svelte is specified for Svelte 5, with a note for Svelte 4 users to use lucide-svelte instead.

packages/svelte/README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/lucide-icons/lucide">
    <img src="https://lucide.dev/package-logos/lucide-svelte.svg" alt="Lucide icon library for Svelte 5 applications." width="540">
  </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
Lucide icon library for Svelte 5 applications.
</p>

<div align="center">

  [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/%40lucide%2Fsvelte?color=blue)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/lucide-svelte)
  ![NPM Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dw/%40lucide%2Fsvelte)
  [![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/lucide-icons/lucide)](https://lucide.dev/license)
</div>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://lucide.dev/guide/">About</a>
  ·
  <a href="https://lucide.dev/icons/">Icons</a>
  ·
  <a href="https://lucide.dev/guide/packages/lucide-svelte">Documentation</a>
  ·
  <a href="https://lucide.dev/license">License</a>
</p>

# Lucide Svelte

Implementation of the lucide icon library for svelte applications.

## Installation

```sh
pnpm add @lucide/svelte
```

```sh
npm install @lucide/svelte
```

```sh
yarn add @lucide/svelte
```

```sh
bun add @lucide/svelte
```
> `@lucide/svelte` is only for Svelte 5, for Svelte 4 use the [`lucide-svelte`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/lucide-svelte) package.

## Documentation

For full documentation, visit [lucide.dev](https://lucide.dev/guide/packages/lucide-svelte)

## Community

Join the [Discord server](https://discord.gg/EH6nSts) to chat with the maintainers and other users.

## License

Lucide is licensed under the ISC license. See [LICENSE](https://lucide.dev/license).

## Sponsors

<a href="https://vercel.com?utm_source=lucide&utm_campaign=oss">
  <img src="https://lucide.dev/vercel.svg" alt="Powered by Vercel" width="200" />
</a>

<a href="https://www.digitalocean.com/?refcode=b0877a2caebd&utm_campaign=Referral_Invite&utm_medium=Referral_Program&utm_source=badge"><img src="https://lucide.dev/digitalocean.svg" width="200" alt="DigitalOcean Referral Badge" /></a>

[//]: <> (Open Collective backers)
### Awesome backers 🍺

<a href="https://github.com/pdfme/pdfme"><img src="https://lucide.dev/sponsors/pdfme.svg" width="180" alt="pdfme – Open-source PDF generation library built with TypeScript and React." /></a>
<a href="https://www.paxhistoria.co/"><img src="https://lucide.dev/sponsors/paxhistoria.svg?" width="180" alt="Pax Historia – An alternate history sandbox game" /></a>

### Backers ☕

<a href="https://www.fina.money/"><img src="https://lucide.dev/sponsors/fina-money.png" width="180" alt="Fina Money – Modular Finance Tracker" /></a>

### Other contributors 💸

You can find all our past and non-recurring financial contributors at [our Open Collective page](https://opencollective.com/lucide-icons).
